As technology advances, the need for specific equipment increases. It is not always easy to manufacture the equipment. A lot of time and effort is used to create just the prototype. After the product is ready, machinery needs to be set up to manufacture the equipment. Additionally, there is the large cost of manufacturing overhead and other non-manufacturing costs. Additive manufacturing (AM), also known as 3D-printing, could be used to solve these issues. A 3D-printer can make a prototype in a single day. Once everything is ready, the final product can be made right from the printer as well.
The origin of 3D-printing begins in 1986; Charles Hull filed a patent for stereolithography apparatus (SLA). SLA is the printing process for making an object using digital data. In 1992, Hull produced his first SLA machine, which successfully created three-dimensional parts, by using a laser beam to trace and cure resin, layer by layer. The process of building parts layer by layer is the reason why additive manufacturing is called such. Nowadays, 3D-printing can be done by various methods, such as Selective Laser Sintering, which uses a laser to fuse particles of plastic, metal, ceramic, or glass. The overall process of 3D-printing, however, starts with creating a design. This is typically done using 3D modeling software (Computer Aided Design or CAD). Using CAD, the specifications for the design can be modeled and simulated. Afterwards, the data from the CAD is loaded into the machine. Then, the object is printed. AM differs from traditional manufacturing in that specialized machinery must be used to produce single parts, while a single printer can produce many different parts.
While typical manufacturing techniques only build a specific part, a 3D-printer can make various objects and parts. AM isn't restricted by the design of a certain component; the only restriction is the size of the object. Using the versatility of 3D-printing, prototypes can be made easily; there is no need to use specific machinery to manufacture the different bits. While a 3D printer can make various things, the speed at which it prints is slow. As of now, the technology used will allow a printer to print at a max of 450mm/sec. This speed pales in comparison to typical manufacturing, which is capable of producing thousands of parts in a single day. However, AM has the benefit of versatility. With 3D-printing, components that had to be assembled from different pieces can be built as one single part. One such example is Airbus’s fuel system. Airbus used to make a certain piece of a fuel system in 10 different parts combined together, which also required a technician to oversee the process. With AM though, they were able to create that part in a single print. Additionally, they didn’t need a technician; anyone could be used to just load the CAD file and then print the part.
AM has the potential to replace typical manufacturing methods. While there are various disadvantages to AM, technology continues to advance and improve on the various methods of 3D-printing. Eventually, there will be a point where AM could make products just as fast as typical manufacturing, as well as just as cheap. At that stage, people may not need to buy ready-made products, but just the base materials to use in their 3D-printer at home.
